DOC Contributing guide update (#13961)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/developers/contributing.rst

    others of the Python Software Foundation:
    https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/

In case you experience issues using this package, do not hesitate to submit a
ticket to the
`GitHub issue tracker <https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues>`_. You are
also welcome to post feature requests or pull requests.

> 

Reviewer: You want this removed?

Author: I added a link at the top (not worth a whole section IMO)

       $ git clone git@github.com:YourLogin/scikit-learn.git
       $ cd scikit-learn

4. Install the development dependencies::

       $ pip install numpy scipy cython pytest flake8

5. Install scikit-learn in editable mode::

       $ pip install --editable .

   for more details about advanced installation, see the
   :ref:`install_bleeding_edge` section.

6. Create a branch to hold your development changes::

       $ git checkout -b my-feature

   and start making changes. Always use a ``feature`` branch. It's good practice to
   never work on the ``master`` branch!

> 

Author: I thought this note was redundant with the instructions below about solving conflicts, but feel free to disagree (esp @adrinjalali since I think you wrote it IIRC).

Reviewer 2: agreed

       $ git clone git@github.com:YourLogin/scikit-learn.git
       $ cd scikit-learn

4. Install the development dependencies::

>        $ pip install numpy scipy cython pytest flake8

Reviewer 3: `joblib`? Also, I find it suboptimal and hard to maintain that we basically have this section twice in our documentations.

Author: I think a little bit of redundancy in our docs is worth it if it avoids users going through the rabbit holes of clicking into our multiple "see *link* for details".

5. Install scikit-learn in editable mode::

       $ pip install --editable .

   for more details about advanced installation, see the
   :ref:`install_bleeding_edge` section.

6. Create a branch to hold your development changes::

       $ git checkout -b my-feature

   and start making changes. Always use a ``feature`` branch. It's good practice to
   never work on the ``master`` branch!

> 

Reviewer 3: I like the re-ordering. But I think in the PR we added these lines, we discussed that users should _always_ do `git checkout -b my-feature upstream/master` for a new branch, which I think is not missing in the docs with your proposed changes.

Author: Ok. I'll add the addition of the upstream ref as a separate step.

   be closed, you should `use keywords to create link to them
   <https://github.com/blog/1506-closing-issues-via-pull-requests/>`_
   (e.g., ``Fixes #1234``; multiple issues/PRs are allowed as long as each
   one is preceded by a keyword). Upon merging, those issues/PRs will
   automatically be closed by GitHub. If your pull request is simply
   related to some other issues/PRs, create a link to them without using
   the keywords (e.g., ``See also #1234``).

9. PRs should often substantiate the change, through benchmarks of
   performance and efficiency or through examples of usage. Examples also
   illustrate the features and intricacies of the library to users. Have a
   look at other examples in the `examples/
   <https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/tree/master/examples>`_
   directory for reference. Examples should demonstrate why the new
   functionality is useful in practice and, if possible, compare it to other
   methods available in scikit-learn.

10. New features often need to be illustrated with narrative documentation in
    the user guide, with small code snipets. If relevant, please also add
    references in the literature, with PDF links when possible.

> 11. The documentation should also include expected time and space complexity

Reviewer: which documentation? say user guide...

    of the algorithm and scalability, e.g. "this algorithm can scale to a
    large number of samples > 100000, but does not scale in dimensionality:
    n_features is expected to be lower than 100".

> 

Reviewer: It might also be instructive to point the contributor to the Code Review Guidelines to give some idea of what reviewers will be looking for.

       $ git push -u origin my-feature

9. Follow `these
   <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork>`_
   instructions to create a pull request from your fork. This will send an
   email to the committers. You may want to consider sending an email to the
   mailing list for more visibility.

.. note::

  If you are modifying a Cython module, you have to re-run step 5 after modifications
  and before testing them.

It is often helpful to keep your local branch synchronized with the latest
changes of the main scikit-learn repository::

    $ git fetch upstream
    $ git merge upstream/master

Subsequently, you might need to solve the conflicts. You can refer to the
`Git documentation related to resolving merge conflict using the command
line
<https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line/>`_.

> The `Git documentation <https://git-scm.com/documentation>`_ is an excellent

Reviewer 4: For readability, I would put this in a "topic" directive.

Also, I would add a link to http://try.github.io/, which I find really good to learn git + github workflow.

<http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/dev/gitwash/development_workflow.html>`_ on the
web, or ask a friend or another contributor for help.

In order to keep your local branch synchronized with the latest
changes of the main scikit-learn repository, you will need to add
the ``upstream`` remote::

    $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn.git

You can now synchronize your local branch with::

    $ git fetch upstream
    $ git merge upstream/master

Subsequently, you might need to solve the conflicts. You can refer to the `Git
documentation related to resolving merge conflict using the command line
<https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line/>`_.

Pull request checklist

> ----------------------

Author: This list is essentially the same but I tried to prioritize tests (with some tips that were IMO missing), documentation and pep8.

In order to ease the reviewing process, we recommend that your contribution

> complies with the following rules before submitting a pull request. The

Reviewer: I don't agree that this should qualify the submission of a pull request. But it should be considered a draft until it complies

Reviewer 5: I agree, these requirements are more for a PR to be accepted. For instance you might not understand why some test is failing and submitting your PR allows other devs to take a look and give some help.

You could advise to tag the PR with [WIP] until it does not fulfill all the items below.

Author: Good point

**bolded** ones are especially important:

1. **Make sure your code passes the tests**. The whole test suite can be run
   with `pytest`, but it is usually not recommended since it takes a long
   time. It is often enough to only run the test related to your changes:
   for example, if you changed something in
   `sklearn/linear_model/logistic.py`, running the following commands will
   usually be enough:

   - `pytest sklearn/linear_model/logistic.py` to make sure the doctest
     examples are correct
   - `pytest sklearn/linear_model/tests/test_logistic.py` to run the tests
     specific to the file
   - `pytest sklearn/linear_model` to test the whole `linear_model` module
   - `pytest sklearn/doc/linear_model.rst` to make sure the user guide
     examples are correct.

   There may be other failing tests, but they will be caught by the CI so
   you don't need to run the whole test suite locally. Read more in
   `testing_coverage`_.

2. **Make sure your code is properly commented and documented**, and **make

>    sure the documentation renders properly**. To build the documentation, please

Reviewer: Again, CI can build it for you.

   refer to our `contribute_documentation`_ guidelines.

3. **Tests are necessary for enhancements to be
   accepted**. Bug-fixes or new features should be provided with
   `non-regression tests
   <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-regression_testing>`_. These tests
   verify the correct behavior of the fix or feature. In this manner, further
   modifications on the code base are granted to be consistent with the

>    desired behavior. For the case of bug fixes, at the time of the PR, the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   desired behavior. In the case of bug fixes, at the time of the PR, the
```

   non-regression tests should fail for the code base in the master branch
   and pass for the PR code.

4. **Make sure that your PR does not add PEP8 violations**. Please run
   `./build_tools/circle/flake8_diff.sh` or `make flake8-diff` on a Unix-like

>    system. You can also directly use `flake8 path_to_file`.

Reviewer: But please avoid reformatting parts of the file that your pull request doesn't change as it distracts from code review

5. Follow the `coding-guidelines`_ (see below).

6. When applicable, use the validation tools and scripts in the
   ``sklearn.utils`` submodule.  A list of utility routines available
   for developers can be found in the :ref:`developers-utils` page.

7. Give your pull request a helpful title that summarises what your
   contribution does. In some cases "Fix <ISSUE TITLE>" is enough.

>    "Fix #<ISSUE NUMBER>" is not enough.

Reviewer: This title will often become the commit message once merged so it should summarise your contribution for posterity.

8. Often pull requests resolve one or more other issues (or pull requests).
   If merging your pull request means that some other issues/PRs should
   be closed, you should `use keywords to create link to them
   <https://github.com/blog/1506-closing-issues-via-pull-requests/>`_
   (e.g., ``Fixes #1234``; multiple issues/PRs are allowed as long as each
   one is preceded by a keyword). Upon merging, those issues/PRs will
   automatically be closed by GitHub. If your pull request is simply
   related to some other issues/PRs, create a link to them without using
   the keywords (e.g., ``See also #1234``).

9. Please prefix the title of your pull request with ``[MRG]`` if the
   contribution is complete and should be subjected to a detailed review.
   Two core developers will review your code and change the prefix of the pull

>    request to ``[MRG + 1]`` and ``[MRG + 2]`` on approval, making it eligible

Reviewer: This is not common practice anymore

   for merging. An incomplete contribution -- where you expect to do more

>    work before receiving a full review -- should be prefixed ``[WIP]`` (to

Reviewer: Should we move to using the draft PR feature of GitHub?

Author: I'd be happy to. Will ask the others

   indicate a work in progress) and changed to ``[MRG]`` when it matures.
   WIPs may be useful to: indicate you are working on something to avoid
   duplicated work, request broad review of functionality or API, or seek
   collaborators. WIPs often benefit from the inclusion of a
   `task list
   <https://github.com/blog/1375-task-lists-in-gfm-issues-pulls-comments>`_
   in the PR description.

> 10. When adding additional functionality, provide at least one example script

Reviewer: Hmmmm... This is too broad. The example gallery is now big. Modifying an example, or the user guide, is often more appropriate. I think it's better to frame this functionally: pull requests should often substantiate the change, through benchmarks of performance and efficiency or through examples of usage. Examples also illustrate the features and intricacies of the library to users

    in the ``examples/`` folder. Have a look at other examples for reference.
    Examples should demonstrate why the new functionality is useful in
    practice and, if possible, compare it to other methods available in
    scikit-learn.

> 11. At least one paragraph of narrative documentation with links to

Reviewer: It is not clear where this documentation should go. And I'm not convinced that "one paragraph" is right without specifying what kind of change it is

<http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/dev/gitwash/development_workflow.html>`_ on the
web, or ask a friend or another contributor for help.

In order to keep your local branch synchronized with the latest
changes of the main scikit-learn repository, you will need to add
the ``upstream`` remote::

    $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn.git

You can now synchronize your local branch with::

    $ git fetch upstream
    $ git merge upstream/master

Subsequently, you might need to solve the conflicts. You can refer to the `Git
documentation related to resolving merge conflict using the command line

> <https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line/>`_.

Reviewer 3: it would make me happier if we also add a link to `https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging`. I feel like this book is underappreciated and it actually helps people if they read it, or some of it.

Author: I love the book too, we have a link a few lines above (that I simplified and put below, now)

indicate you are working on something to avoid duplicated work, request
broad review of functionality or API, or seek collaborators. WIPs often
benefit from the inclusion of a `task list
<https://github.com/blog/1375-task-lists-in-gfm-issues-pulls-comments>`_ in
the PR description.

In order to ease the reviewing process, we recommend that your contribution
complies with the following rules before marking a PR as ``[MRG]``. The
**bolded** ones are especially important:

1. **Make sure your code passes the tests**. The whole test suite can be run
   with `pytest`, but it is usually not recommended since it takes a long
   time. It is often enough to only run the test related to your changes:
   for example, if you changed something in
   `sklearn/linear_model/logistic.py`, running the following commands will
   usually be enough:

   - `pytest sklearn/linear_model/logistic.py` to make sure the doctest
     examples are correct
   - `pytest sklearn/linear_model/tests/test_logistic.py` to run the tests
     specific to the file
   - `pytest sklearn/linear_model` to test the whole `linear_model` module
   - `pytest sklearn/doc/linear_model.rst` to make sure the user guide

>      examples are correct.

Reviewer 3: adding the test_common and test_docstrings may also be useful?

Author: Adding test_common, but test_docstrings very rarely fails so probably not worth adding it

   There may be other failing tests, but they will be caught by the CI so
   you don't need to run the whole test suite locally. Read more in
   :ref:`testing_coverage`.

2. **Make sure your code is properly commented and documented**, and **make
   sure the documentation renders properly**. To build the documentation, please
   refer to our :ref:`contribute_documentation` guidelines. The CI will also
   build the docs: please refer to :ref:`generated_doc_CI`.

3. **Tests are necessary for enhancements to be
   accepted**. Bug-fixes or new features should be provided with
   `non-regression tests
   <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-regression_testing>`_. These tests
   verify the correct behavior of the fix or feature. In this manner, further
   modifications on the code base are granted to be consistent with the
   desired behavior. In the case of bug fixes, at the time of the PR, the
   non-regression tests should fail for the code base in the master branch
   and pass for the PR code.

4. **Make sure that your PR does not add PEP8 violations**. Please run

>    `./build_tools/circle/flake8_diff.sh` or `make flake8-diff` on a Unix-like

Reviewer 3: I think leaving the `./build_tools/circle/flake8_diff.sh` is safer since we may just move the file and forget to fix this part of the docs?

Author: You mean only keeping  `make flake8-diff`?

Reviewer 3: yes

   system. You can also directly use `flake8 path_to_file`, but please avoid
   reformatting parts of the file that your pull request doesn't change, as
   it distracts from code review.

5. Follow the `coding-guidelines`_ (see below).

6. When applicable, use the validation tools and scripts in the
   ``sklearn.utils`` submodule.  A list of utility routines available
   for developers can be found in the :ref:`developers-utils` page.

> 7. Give your pull request a helpful title that summarises what your

Reviewer 3: should this be moved up to where you talk about the title and `MRG` and `WIP`?

Reviewer 6: I think it's fine to keep in the bullet point list but i would move it first and make it bold. It's a quick fix that should be tackled first.

   contribution does. This title will often become the commit message once
   merged so it should summarise your contribution for posterity. In some

>    cases "Fix <ISSUE TITLE>" is enough. "Fix #<ISSUE NUMBER>" is not enough.

Reviewer 3: I would even argue that `Fix #<ISSUE NUMBER>` is never a good title.

Reviewer 2: agreed

8. Often pull requests resolve one or more other issues (or pull requests).
   If merging your pull request means that some other issues/PRs should
   be closed, you should `use keywords to create link to them
   <https://github.com/blog/1506-closing-issues-via-pull-requests/>`_
   (e.g., ``Fixes #1234``; multiple issues/PRs are allowed as long as each
   one is preceded by a keyword). Upon merging, those issues/PRs will
   automatically be closed by GitHub. If your pull request is simply
   related to some other issues/PRs, create a link to them without using
   the keywords (e.g., ``See also #1234``).

9. PRs should often substantiate the change, through benchmarks of
   performance and efficiency or through examples of usage. Examples also
   illustrate the features and intricacies of the library to users. Have a

>    look at other examples for reference. Examples should demonstrate why

Reviewer 3: we have examples and docs in `examples/` and `docs`, and it's not at first clear what to write where. Maybe expand on that?

Continuous Integration (CI)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> * Azure is used for testing scikit-learn on Linux, Mac and Windows, with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Azure pipelines are used for testing scikit-learn on Linux, Mac and Windows, with
```

.. _contribute_documentation:

Documentation
=============

We are glad to accept any sort of documentation: function docstrings,
reStructuredText documents (like this one), tutorials, etc. reStructuredText
documents live in the source code repository under the ``doc/`` directory.

You can edit the documentation using any text editor, and then generate the
HTML output by typing ``make`` from the ``doc/`` directory. Alternatively,
``make html`` may be used to generate the documentation **with** the example
gallery (which takes quite some time). The resulting HTML files will be
placed in ``_build/html/stable`` and are viewable in a web browser.

Building the documentation
--------------------------

First, make sure you have :ref:`properly installed <install_bleeding_edge>`
the development version.

Building the documentation requires installing some additional packages::

    pip install sphinx sphinx-gallery numpydoc matplotlib Pillow pandas scikit-image

To build the documentation, you need to be in the ``doc`` folder::

    cd doc

> 

Reviewer 6: Why remove this? The command should be executed before cd ing into the doc folder though.

Author: we start the section with "First, make sure you have :ref:`properly installed <install_bleeding_edge>`
the development version."

    pip install --editable ..

In the vast majority of cases, you only need to generate the full web site,
without the example gallery::

    make

The documentation will be generated in the ``_build/html/stable`` directory.

> To also generating the example gallery you can use::

Reviewer: Generating -> generate

3. Loop.

> 

Author: The wiki seems outdated, and with lots of TODO, so I don't think it's a particularly useful resource. This is a typical rabit-hole risk for new users.

Reviewer: Let's put a note on the wiki to that effect.

> 

Author: Also chose to remove this one: the core dev are the ones setting the tags, not the contributors.

Reviewer: As long as the ones that are important for the contributors to understand are visible...

Author: I'm not sure what you mean Joel. Should I revert?

Reviewer 2: The point is that here this explains the meaning of the tags to the developers. I think it's useful.

Author: Ok, reverting
